# Part A: Essay 1 (723 words)

> In 750 words or less, answer the following question.
What makes you an HBCU All-Star? Provide examples of your scholarship, leadership, and civic engagement involvement (i.e. Dean’s list, student government, theatre, community service, sports).

In an ideal future, I hope to be able to apply my knowledge of biological research techniques in combination with the advanced use of artificial intelligence (specifically within the realm of genetic algorithms) in hope of positively benefiting humanity. In the words of the fictional character Peter Weyland, “We [will be able to] create cybernetic individuals who in just a few short years will be completely indistinguishable from us”. I merely wish to speed along that indistinguishableness.

Striving to attain this major goal, I have already tackled various intellectual challenges. At the age of 10, I began my first high school course with Algebra 1. At 13, my first college courses took place at Tidewater Community College (TCC) during the summer of my freshman year. At 15, my first university course was General Zoology at Hampton University during the summer of my sophomore year. During high school, I took 10 AP courses, not including the numerous dual enrollment courses taken at various institutions. I returned to TCC in the summer of my senior year and took 4 courses, auditing one. The past two summers, I have taken formal courses at Hampton and Old Dominion University so that I may graduate a year early. With so much experience in formal academia, I will finally take a shift from the traditional in this upcoming summer given that I intend to enroll in the intensive coding bootcamp, Fullstack Academy, where I’ve been accepted and generously given a large scholarship, so that I may prepare to become a leader in the tech industry, not just a follower.

Indeed, my prior academic history will tell you I’ve always tried to pursue things earlier and constantly involve myself with the non-familiar. I entered primary school earlier, took numerous college classes earlier through dual enrollment while still in high school, volunteered internationally at a relatively young age, studied wildlife research abroad with college students while I was still in high school, ended up graduating high school at the top of my class at an age younger than the majority, and am now able to graduate one year earlier from college at the age of 20. For me, it is not the rush, but the thrill of the experiences that I’ve gone through that makes me pursue them.

Outside of formal academic pursuits, I am the Website Committee Chair of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Student Chapter at Hampton and am in charge of the ACM website, all other ACM related social networks (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram), and organization branding. I am also an editor for the Hampton Script, which is the student paper at Hampton in charge of editing features and front page articles, and have recently acted acted as a student volunteer/scholarship recipient for the 29th 1st Winter Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Conference. I received a travel award to attend the annual ACM Richard Tapia Conference in Boston, which aims at promoting diversity in computing. I grasp in this moment more than ever that the so-called “perfect storm” has only become more prominent in communities like mine, where the minority will soon become the majority by 2043 and will be given the responsibility, inevitably, to lead a multitude of tech companies nationally. We will become the movers and the shakers, but first, we must resolve the issues of accessibility. Conferences like Richard Tapia’s are essential in order for that accessibility to become decoded and ultimately resolved.

I also maintain numerous virtual portfolios that can better showcase my projects. I enjoy graphic design, web development, and, of course, dabbling in digital hieroglyphics (aka coding). If I want to involve myself in something due to interest, it will be without hesitation. This is both a vice and a virtue because while I get a much broader range of experiences than the average person, I have yet to dedicate my full focus on any single subject. Through my website and these various portfolios, I am open to each and every experience I’ve gone through and how it changed me as a person.

For those that know me, they know my ambition is undefined - that I will pursue anything I believe I have rightfully earned, and because of this and the reasoning I have described, I believe I fit the definition of an “HBCU All-Star”.

# Part B: ESSAY 2 (573 words) 

> In 750 words or less, answer the following question.
HBCU All-Stars serve as ambassadors of the White House Initiative on HBCUs by providing outreach opportunities and communications to their fellow students about the value of higher education and the initiative as a networking resource. Based on your knowledge and experience identify a specific federal policy and tell us how you plan to implement the policy at your HBCU?

The White House TechHire Initiative is now looking at prominent code schools as models for improving current technical education methods. Turning youngsters, veterans, and uprooted specialists into software engineers is the objective of this new TechHire policy and President Obama intends to follow through with this plan using coding training camps (or “coding bootcamps”) and high quality online courses provided through companies like Treehouse, where I am taking courses in modern web technologies.

Of course, not all Americans are willing to jump into a less traditional route straight away, which is why TechHire will highlight all the different options they have going for them over time. Students and professors alike at Hampton University also recognize that there is a national demand for individuals with specialized technical backgrounds. We take pride in that within our small but supportive CS department.

The policy is not intended to minimize the significance of conventional four-year programs nor infer that code schools produce substandard specialized workers. Instead, the policy aims to allow both programs to work together so that either path is enhancing the other. I want to help students at Hampton realize the importance of this.

Given that I will attending Fullstack Academy, a prominent coding bootcamp in New York City, this summer to study full-stack web development, I will have the right background so as to explain all the different opportunities available President Obama has laid out for tech-savvy students at Hampton. By actively making sure Hamptonians recognize the different programs and course content available to them virtually and physically, I will help speed the growth and development of the TechHire policy, which aims to have more and more students nationwide fill in the growing number of developer positions today and in the future.

I’m so excited about the potential of this new tech-ed model that I even created a map of all the bootcamps in the world called “Bootcamp.me” and am currently in the process now of creating a successful crowdsourced map. I know first hand how much the “coding bootcamp” model is successfully expanding, with over 165 points on my map so far (that’s not including the virtual programs, of course).

Teaching fellow students about these new models would be fused in with the freshman integration program that the ACM@HU club already has in place for the following academic year. I’m developing this program hand in hand with my advisors Dr. Muhammad and Mr. Chittenden along with my fellow ACM@HU club leadership members in order to properly engage in more industry-specific sessions that would be of great help to all CS students in gaining a different perspective from the theoretical concepts they learn in the classroom. Through the integration program, students will hear about startups, various online resources, internship and alumni perspectives, speak to mentors, and participate directly through social gatherings, fundraising nights, and speaker round tables.

Adding on to the policy implementation, upperclassmen would be introducing additional concepts related to current industry practices to the underclassmen through these round tables so that the students can start implementing these technologies through school-related activities such as Hackathons and group projects.

In conclusion, through the freshman integration program, I hope to be able to not only spread the word about the TechHire initiative to my fellow Hamptonians but to also have fellow students and myself directly teach the tech concepts that are so important to today’s economy.
