In an ideal future, I hope to ultimately be able to apply my knowledge of programming in the hope of positively benefiting humanity. In the words of the fictional character Peter Weyland, “We [will be able to] create cybernetic individuals who in just a few short years will be completely indistinguishable from us”. I merely wish to speed along that indistinguishableness.

Striving to attain this major goal, I have already tackled various intellectual challenges. At 13, I enrolled in my first college courses through a local community college and throughout high school I enrolled in numerous AP and dual enrollment courses. Now I’ll be able to graduate college with almost 140 credits under my belt at the ripe age of 20. With so much experience in formal academia, I finally took a shift from the traditional when I enrolled in an intensive coding bootcamp known as Fullstack Academy where I was prepared to become a leader in the tech industry and not just a follower.

Indeed, my prior academic history will tell you I’ve always tried to pursue things earlier and constantly involve myself with the non-familiar. Over the years, I've passed out next to the chief surgeon for a medical mission in Vietnam, touched the same bronze bowl located in the Forbidden City twice, had my face mere inches away from a lioness in the Serengeti, became best friends with a Slovakian and Chinese girls in Germany, acted as a speaker for the first major tech conference in my region, and recently I've started my first job as a front-end developer at a local software consulting company called 80|20 (Pareto’s principle, anyone?).

Outside of formal academic pursuits, I am a leader in the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Student Chapter at Hampton and have recently acted as a student volunteer/scholarship recipient for the 1st Winter Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Conference. I received a travel award to attend the ACM Richard Tapia Conference which aims at promoting diversity in computing and after attending, I grasp in this moment more than ever that the so-called “perfect storm” has only become more prominent in communities like mine, where the minority will soon become the majority by 2043. We are to become the movers and the shakers, but first, we must resolve the issues of accessibility. Conferences like these are essential in order for that accessibility to become decoded and ultimately resolved. For that reason, I made it my goal this year to attend and speak at more conferences and hackathons and so far, I have over five events lined up (most of which are in San Francisco like React.js Conf) where I was granted a scholarship to attend.

For those that know me, they know my ambition is undefined - that I will pursue anything I believe I have rightfully earned, and because of this and the reasoning I have described, I’ve been motivated to pursue the fields of both business and engineering.
