# NASA Mission Directorates

Having been inspired by the film Prometheus among other ventures I've personally had in the realm of science fiction, the mission directorate that interests me the most involves Human Exploration and Operations at NASA. Of the exploration activities that were listed, the one that interests me even more specifically invokes that of the Space Life Sciences Research & Applications.

Mars One, a nonprofit organization dedicated to placing humans in a permanent settlement on Mars by 2026 (similar to Jamestown), was what peaked my interested back in 2011, which was when the company was initially founded. Just next year, in 2015, they'll be starting their training for the first crew that was selected from a group of over 200,000 applicants in 2013 across the world. I was among those applicants, and I don't feel terrible for not getting accepted either, given that only 24 were accepted for the planned future departures. Regardless, it pleases me to see such improvement in the private sector regarding space exploration. It quenches a least for a bit the never-ending thirst humans in general have for more and more knowledge and it lets us leave something behind to the next generation when we explore other worlds - which is simply the privilege to investigate a world never before set foot on. This is why NASA's own attempts to pursue outer space exploration intrigue me at a deeper level.

# Interview with Dr. Chutima Boonthum-Denecke

I stepped into Dr.B's office September 12 around 10 am. She was busy as usual, so I got right down to the interview questions. Dr. Chutima Boonthum-Denecke, informally known as Dr. B to all her students, is originally from Thailand, which is where she received her Bachelor's in Computer Science. She then went on to earn a Master's and a Ph.D. in Computer Science in the United States with her dissertation investigating natural language processing.

With an extensive array of publications focusing on A.I (natural language processing, computational linguistics), information retrieval, web development, and cognitive robotics, Dr. B likes to think of research as a way of positively impacting society. With her skills in natural language processing, she helped create a tutoring application with a fellow student. That student acts as a tutor for high school students in reading through the use of strategies like compression reading, paraphrasing, elaboration, etc. and operates with a clean UI and a game-like point system. Students usually get involved with these kind of projects by first taking the appropriate class, Dr. B says, and then simply approaching her for research opportunities shortly afterwards.

Besides having NLP under her belt, Dr. B has also received a grant from ARTSI (Advancing Robotics Technology for Societal Impact) for research in her robotics class where students ended up with poster presentations published at the FLARES and ADMI conferences.

Today, Dr. B focuses more on the younger undergrads getting sufficient research experience and having received a supplemental grant from the HBCU-UP TIP, Dr. B will now have the resources to encourage research efforts in first two programming classes - CSC 151 and 152, which both now have research writing and interview components.

In terms of how her research interests would be of interest to NASA, Dr. B believes that her background in robotics has obvious reasoning and that with natural language processing, it would help in making communication between mecha (machines) and orga (humans) more feasible and fluid.

Dr. B's research interests in robotics and NLP both intrigue me as they both relate to the broad field of AI, which is why I would definitely not mind choosing Dr. B as my research mentor when the time comes. While my own primary interests lie in genetic algorithms or bio-inspired computing, Dr. B has a natural way of making the fields of robotics and NLP all the more appealing to me.

I look forward to working with her in the future given that she has a stellar track record and the necessary qualifications/background to guide me towards forthcoming research callings in artificial intelligence, or what some researchers might call today, “our final invention”.
