> In 1,000 words or less, please define a specific problem that you see in your community (local or statewide) related to IT, and recommend a solution that is thoughtful and likely to make an impact on the problem.

My state, Virginia, is doing quite well in terms of expanding homeland security operations and increasing their information technology jobs. However, in terms of a state- wide as well as national developing problem relating to IT, VA IT companies as well as major tech companies around the world who deal with large amounts of data face the growing problem of cyber security. I'll be looking in particular at off shore data centers.

For major tech companies, the protection of off shore data centers remains a crucial part of their company's growth and success. Their offshore floating data centers represent the he modern pinnacle of high tech data storage. For companies such as Google who are responsible for managing millions of people's data through email, documents, and so on, the more amount of data they have access to means more success. Using not only cloud computing tools and many free to use applications, individuals using Google products are not limited to what they can store, but how can it all be stored safely? Simply put, large data-based companies need to use millions of servers spread across hundreds of data centers globally. These hundreds of data centers are necessary to run all the necessary applications a large tech company such as Google control. On top of all this, extremely intelligent applications take a thousand times more computation time, memory, and all important database access than your average software app. It's more than clear then that these data storage bases are of the utmost essence.

Why the big hype with these offshore data centers (or ODCs for short)? Why not on land? Well, the cool sea water temperatures makes effective computer cooling easier, ocean property is much cheaper, and enlarges the scope of commercial customers the company can access with increased cloud computing capacity through these servers.

Unfortunately, ODCs have a few problems. Resiliency to storms out in the sea is a big one, but even more detrimental than that are the piracy issues. Most ODCs are located far away from company headquarters and land in general. There is a lack of facilities for people who are in charge of all the servers therefore the servers must be left alone for most of the time. A massive ODC can contain about 80,000 servers along with all the necessary hard drives, power supply, emergency backup power systems, and communications equipment. 20,000 servers for a high tech company alone can be worth nearly 10 million. Were the wrong people to get their hands on the servers, they could not only steal precious computer equipment but could also gain large amounts of customer data on the server hard drives that could be leaked and subsequently abused.

A slightly radical solution I propose for these hefty ODCs are land based mini robots capable of defending the valuable data within these centers. These robots would be under the safe control of trained handlers where they would monitor these defensive robots in a central location. The robots will possess special infrared lighting capabilities in their cameras that will allow them to see in any environment should normal visibility be absent. The handlers would instruct the robots how to act in certain situations, to back off or defend the rest of the machinery. For the hackers and pirates, the robots could instruct them to leave and if that failed, the robot could possess non-lethal weapons, like pepper spray or taser-like shocks. This would ideally shock the attackers enough to send them away. In the very rare case that several non-lethal methods were tried and failed and the pirates were considered too much of a risk, the robots could be optionally armed with compact rifle rounds that would be powerful enough to stop anyone and prevent serious breach of data.

Land shouldn't be the only limitation. Mini underwater robots could be used to detect boats approaching and can provide a vocal awarding through broadcasted radio to warn these boats off, as the land robots do. If that fails, these underwater robots too could possess weapons powerful enough (A torpedo, perhaps?), as well as communication devices that would intelligently share data with the land based robots. These underwater robots could potentially attach themselves to boats, or self-destruct as a very last resort.

These hypothetical robotic defenses along with more hardened units for the large number of servers would likely ensure any sort of physical pirate attacks to be unsuccessful. This allows any major rollout plans that the company has to progress smoothly, without any further distresses. In the future, I can see these sort of defenses becoming the standard in the industry, simply because data mining and large data in general has become an all too vital and integral part of the majority's day to day tasks on Earth.

---

> Major Relevancy

I'm currently majoring in Computer Science at Hampton University. I myself am more interested specifically in computational creativity within the area of AI due to it's multi- dimensionality and untapped potential services for humanity. The department at Hampton has been starting new initiatives in the areas of Information Assurance and Artificial Intelligence, both increasingly important areas in the tech industry, so I feel fortunate I'll be able to take advantages of those courses. This summer I intend to take an intro course in the Information Systems Technology department at Tidewater Community College to make sure I understand the basics before I start taking more advanced courses at Hampton University. In my last year at Hampton, I will be taking CSC 382, the Introduction to Information Assurance course that provides a stronger foundation for understanding the technical and administrative aspects of information asset protection, security incidents, and creating reliable systems to deal with intrusion detections. Besides that course, my university also offers Advanced Computer and Network Security and Systems Security Administration among other relevant courses within the IT network security industry, so I don't doubt I'll gain the ideal core foundation when I graduate. My university's goal in their curriculum which coincides with my own more than prove that my major is definitely relevant to not just CS in general, but the management information systems and IT industries as well.
