# In your past roles, what technologies did you work with?

My first real job was at 80|20 Software Consulting, which I was able to get shortly after graduating from Fullstack. Even though most of the projects were client based, I ended up working on an internal platform using HTML/CSS/JS and AngularJS that targeted clients who couldn’t afford the regular cost of our services and would be okay with a more automated way of maintaining their website instead. Within that role, I also consulted a few folks on their Wordpress websites.

I only ended up working at 80|20 for a few months before realizing it was interfering too much with my schooling as I was finishing my last semester of undergrad and had to complete several research projects that I didn’t enjoy very much at all.

I ended up receiving a full-time offer to work at Accenture as a technical consultant in SF upon graduating from Hampton in May 2016 but I turned it down and went with an internship instead since I decided to myself that I needed to learn some more and get a Master’s in CS too. I was also younger than the average college grad (20) and I didn’t feel it was necessary to enter the workforce immediately.

At that internship, Accenture placed me in their Redwood City office which was pretty hip and “lean”. There, I was part of the very small wearables team where I worked on optimizing Unity applications to impress clients. I didn’t have any experience with Unity or consumer hardware before but I was surprised I learned as fast as I did.

The main tools/languages I used throughout my internship were Unity (C# and JS are used to create scripts), Sketch, Android Studio, Xcode, and Safari for Developers. I also helped the onboarding team create documentation in order to prepare incoming developers on the basics of Unity and all the hardware available.

Accenture offered me a full-time offer once again following the internship but alas, I turned it down already because I felt the company wasn't really for me.

In December 2016, I took on a role as ambassador for Fullstack Academy, the program I mentioned earlier. It is similar to being a dev evangelist but it doesn’t really require any technical acumen. Just a lot of passion for Fullstack and what it offers.

It’s pretty clear that my experience thus far has been mostly with larger corporations. I’m expecting this to change.

