Having attended TAPIA in 2015, I already know the many benefits of going to such a brilliantly organized conference that I even blogged about my experience. I encourage you to read through the entry as it might amuse you.

The TAPIA Conference really ended up being a grand time. I met some very cool folks who share the same interests as I do and whom I friended on LinkedIn. I even ended up joining 2 organizations, Hispanics in Computing and Afro Movers & Shakers. I helped created the VA ACM Slack group when I came back home which features 100+ ACM student members from 10+ different schools in the state. I even jump-started the idea of having a local conference for all ACM student members called MASACC (Mid Atlantic Student ACM Chapter Colloquium) which will probably roll out later this year or  next under new club leadership. From the time I came back from attending the TAPIA to now where I'm once again attempting to attend the conference again, I've transitioned from being a student to a speaker and mentor at events in my local tech community.

Even now, I'm juggling a part time job with a top software consulting firm in the local area while taking a full load of five classes my last semester of senior year. I've even won the opportunity to attend several major league hackathons and speak at tech conferences.

The reason I'm applying to TAPIA again is because not only would I live to relive that experience but also because I know I want to try even harder this time around in terms of networking and finding opportunities that will benefit me career-wise. It's why I even dared to submit a BOF session proposal. Also, my future prospects of increasing participation for ACM can only become better with the experience I'll gain from a conference organized by the very same organization. Finally, as a Latina in computing, I'll also be able to heighten awareness for possibilities in computer science career fields for the other Hispanic students that will attend grad school with me.