By attending the conference, I’ll be given the rare victory of networking with and becoming stimulated by those of similar cultural origins to mine. Given that this conference was built from the ground up by an inspirational figure of Hispanic origins who has already aided generations of underrepresented students such as myself to pursue STEM careers (which is my intention) only makes that victory all the sweeter.

I grasp in this moment more than ever that the so called “perfect storm” has only become more prominent in communities like mine, where the minority will soon become the majority by 2050 and will be given the responsibility, inevitably, to lead a multitude of tech companies nationally. This conference is essential in order for that difficulty to become decoded and ultimately resolved.

In the words of a TED speaker and the current Chairman of Dreamworks Animation, Mellody Hobson, if we mean to solve a very difficult problem, we’re going to need a manifold of intellects, ergo, a diverse group of people involved. Hobson calls for color bravery, and I believe this conference aspires to do just that. It exposes to students like me others who don’t resemble or behave alike so that not only my assumptions in computing can be challenged and extended, but so that I may also inclusively grow as a human being.

In terms of other events that will be occurring at the conference, I’m also interested in orally contributing to the BOF sessions that involve topics in robotics or AI, listening to a speaker that happens to be a Hampton alumnus (Dr. Hrabowski), and being dazzled by all the different mobile robots at the ARTSI competition.

At Hampton University, we have an ACM club that could make use of more members becoming involved. My future prospects of increasing participation can only become higher with the experience I’ll gain from a conference organized by the very same organization. Lastly, as a Latina in computing, I’ll also be able to heighten awareness for possibilities in computer science career fields for other Hispanic students currently attending Hampton.

