EDI Essay Responses

Pick a product that you think is well designed and explain why. Do the same with a product you think is poorly designed.

I believe the tool Product Hunt is extremely well designed. It's clear they chose a theme early on and stuck with it so that their website could maintain consistency and clarity. Besides being a ridiculously handy tool, Product Hunt knows exactly how to display their information right! Popular collections are limited to three possibilities and the products themselves are easy to browse through and up vote. When you click on a product, it's also nice to see the little window pop up instead of being redirected to a new page. I can easily see how someone can get lost in it (positively) which will keep the user engaged for a while. It feels very clean and fresh and I really like the medium grey text for descriptors. The only thing that is someone limiting is that you can only login through Twitter but even this I feel has its benefits.

Now, on the other hand, If you go to the website for Berkshire Hathaway, one of the most successful multinational conglomerates in the world, you'll find that even if you asked the person with perhaps the worst eye for design in the world, it's pretty clear this web site could use some remodeling. Like, a lot. It's almost like their website wasn't even updated since the 90's. First off, there are only underlined pieces of text to serve as links. There are also absolutely no visuals to paint a picture of the company. The formatting is just behind in its time, as it doesn't even use a navbar for the various links or proper ad placement for Geico. Oh, and the font sizing isn't quite ideal either. The all caps is always difficult to read. A nice 'hero' image would have been nice to 'paint a picture of the company'. People like pictures and it's nice to have a visual that relates to that. Another thing I personally do not like is the Widows and Ophans. Examples would be the 3rd bullet down and the last bullet. If the designer would have broken them/kept the line length to where the 5th bullet ends, they would have filled their lines better. Indeed, for such a powerful company, this is a terribly weak website.

If you could spend one year solving one problem, what would it be and why?

I would fully flesh out a project I started a while ago called RankMe, which is a web app that scrapes review data from various sites (Course Report, Facebook, Google+, Switchup, Techendo, Quora, and Yelp) and social score data from various sites as well (AngelList, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, Quora, Twitter) and ranks them based on their social and review score.

The reason I want to work on this app is because the coding bootcamp industry is exploding and it's becoming harder and harder for students to verify if a program is a scam or is actually very high-value. With RankMe, users wouldn't have to scramble all over the Internet to find the overall reviews and social scores for each bootcamp. Right now, the crawler I made works with most of the websites I mentioned already but if I was given a year, I'd be able to make it work for all the websites and really flesh it out so it could become a practical tool for all potential coding bootcamp students. The reason I feel it would take a year to really make this app perfect is because a lot of the reviews are duplicates so I would have to create or implement an existing algorithm in order to calculate the number of unique reviews from each provider so that the score is calculated more honestly.

You're welcome to view this small side project here.
