The idea behind diversity in big tech companies is making sure the company stays innovative. Diversity in any situation - be it in a biological, financial, mythical, etc., usually benefits all parties. And innovation means progress and it means profits. In a TED talk by Melody Hobson, the president of Ariel Investments, she urges companies nationally to be “color brave”, and not “color blind”. Ultimately, Hobson is urging that all companies become brave enough to acknowledge that racial inequalities exist (especially in tech companies, obviously), and that they need to go about trying to fix those discrepancies.
This question is personal. I recognize myself as a mature Hispanic female majoring in Computer Science who has traveled extensively and has experienced or seen first hand acts of racism in all facets of our tiny earth. I’m well aware at this point in my life that racism in whatever region always tarnishes that region’s image and costs that region’s economy more than people are aware of. It damages the sympathy of those who have to undergo it as well, and the harmful process ends up looking like a figure 8, infinite in nature and never-ending.
Even so, I’m hopeful. Google, along with a few other giant tech industries, has already decided to take a step forward in the aspect of diversity. Diversity in hiring makes for a wider range of ideas or and it’s inclusive of more and more people everyday.
The conferences I’ve been to through school so far always try to address this problem of the lack of diversity in computer science and how it can be improved. This “perfect storm”, someone called it. The big number to remember here is 2043. That’s the year, according to projections, that non-Hispanic whites will become America’s minority. The leaders, the shakers, the doers for America’s tech giants -they’re going to have to come from somewhere and it’s not going to be ideal if they all look the same. Perhaps that’s why this issue of diversity has started to surface more recently, they realize they’re going to have to make sure their products appeal to a wider consumer base and expand their startup portfolios to include more minorities. It all comes down to not just diversity, then, but diversity based on perspective. If tech giants don’t increase diversity, if they simply ignore the fact that everyone looks the same and casually cast it aside, they will suffer financially and in terms of their brand appeal to minority consumers (e.g., U2 album and Apple). That’s diversity in perspective.
The problem comes down to access and education. Underrepresented minorities have a historical history of not being able to even put their foot in the door when it comes to high quality classrooms and financial support (e.g., funding from venture capitalists and college admissions). If enough serious implementations are acted on in regards to these two main issues, we should start to see more people from any background coming into STEM fields in general.
