“I know that I know nothing.” -The Socratic Paradox

My deepest fear is "not that [I am] inadequate", but that I am “powerful beyond measure” and I can't properly realize my own potential. Not being able to gain the right advantages or not quite making it to my next small goal just bother me. I've failed a lot in life, which I'm grateful for, but it's also led me to believe that sometimes maybe I don't want success as much as I should.

At this point, I've set my heart and soul to pursuing a career in the startup tech scene just because every time I learn something new within the field, I feel like a child again (it's a wonderful feeling). The constant change I'll have to go through also resonates well with me since I don't like to focus on the same thing for too long and I'll never be able to claim I'm an expert for too long.

Then some days I feel silly for wanting to pursue a field with such ambition given that my family and relatives alike come from such humble backgrounds. When you're a first generation Hispanic female interested in coding, it raises some eyebrows at family gatherings. Not because it's such a terrible idea, but because it's just generally unexpected that people like me will ever stay long in this kind of field. Damned lies and statistics, indeed.

To mitigate this fear, I have to reassure myself constantly whenever I'm dealing with something difficult academically or technically that the mastery of any field requires a grand amount of time, passion, and dedication. I try instead to view my academic struggles as small obstacles I have to either overcome or diverge from by finding a sub-field within that struggle more suited to my skill-set.

For example, I've come to understand that I'm not terribly great at math, but when it comes to coding, I enjoy it because you're taking the algorithms already built by someone else and combining/tweaking them to form your own high-level product. So when it comes to math, I focus more on how I can leverage the algorithms of others to create my own special derivative. If this sounds unorthodox to you, you're probably not much of a programmer (no offense).

In other words, if I don't feel like I'm on the path to contributing to society in some sort of meaningful way, I start feeling extremely desolate and just scared. What legacy do I want to leave behind?

My prior academic history will tell you I've always tried to pursue typical life events at an earlier age and am constantly trying to involve myself with the non-familiar. I entered primary school earlier, took numerous college classes through dual enrollment all throughout high school starting at the age of 13, ended up graduating high school at the top of my class at an age younger than the majority and now intend to receive my master's by the age of 21. For me, it's never been the rush, but the thrill of the experiences I've gone through that have compelled me to be crazy enough to seek them out time and time again.

Even now, I'm juggling a part time job with a top software consulting firm in my local area while taking a full load of five classes my last semester of senior year. I've already won scholarships/the opportunity to attend several major league hackathons like TreeHacks at Stanford and famous tech conferences like React.js Conf and DeveloperWeek in San Francisco (to name a few) throughout this semester. For the first time, I was the speaker for a tech conference this past November and have two more events lined up where I'll be speaking about my experience with JS (JavaScript) coding bootcamps and how to get started as a developer. All this while I still try to build and design upon smaller side projects from time to time.

This sort of schedule wasn't hacked out spontaneously. It took a while to build up my online reputation and technical skills to get this far. It also took a while to get over the initial fear of feeling as though I represent my entire race and gender every time I speak up at these tech events due to the general lack of diversity. But as I mentioned earlier, being uncomfortable can excite me in a way I still don't entirely understand myself.

The reason I'm applying to Illinois UC is because I'm not ready to stop learning (to put it simply). While attending Fullstack Academy this past summer, I realized I wanted to attend a program that would provide the same experience Fullstack provided — a very immersive learning program that was designed for high-impact and speed. In other words, I'm excited to get into the workplace but I recognize the importance of having the experience of having a high-value MS in CS beforehand. Ideally, with the skills I'll learn through the program, I too will be able to inspire others in the tech scene and show them that yes, Latinas can indeed code and lead within the tech industry. In any industry, really.

Naturally, I can't tell you my entire life story with just two pages, no matter how much I manage to decrease the spacing. My private journal has roughly 170,000 words which should provide a perspective on how many different layers/personas I mentally store away. Like anyone on this dying planet of ours, I can only be accurately represented with the complexity of an entire galaxy (or perhaps just a solar system).

Regardless, the opportunity to join the Illinois UC community would be quite amazing. Since the curriculum focuses on practical real-life applications, I know my time will be well-spent. And that's what really matters.
