# Essay 1

"I know that I know nothing."

-The Socratic Paradox

What bothers me with this intellectual engagement that most institutions of higher learning claim to offer, the sort of engagement I would simply define as Socratic questioning, is that it has been limited between two organic Hominids throughout all of history until most recently. As a futurist myself though, I feel increasingly hopeful with each passing year as our paradoxically unique species discovers innovative ways to communicate with artificial intelligence. I anticipate the era where all technology feels some form of AI coding through themselves and where most machines can pass the Turing test with ease. All the same, I would like to stop anticipating and start accomplishing small feats that will provoke the much larger one of technological singularity, which is where those small bomb like feats result in this massive intelligence atomic explosion of super-intelligence emerging through technological means.

Words of coding inspire me, but words of wisdom provide me a medium to fabricate what resulted from the inspiration. At Hawaii Pacific University, I aspire to major in computer science because I believe that with our current rate of technological development, the ethics and moral questioning of AI potential will have to be reckoned with pronto. That belief stemmed originally from my appreciation of the Socratic paradox, for it is what has gotten me through my schooling without feeling constrained at times when I felt my education was getting in the way of my learning. Comprehending this paradox is just what defines human existence because the more humanity knows, the more ignorant we seem to become. Nevertheless, is this really such a terrible thing? I would argue like every other miracle, knowledge is just a conundrum in itself as well. Furthermore, I would also argue this enigma that outlines wisdom and creativity can be incorporated in artificial human like beings, in the robots we all have witnessed brutally attacking those innocent human beings in those dandy sci-fi films at some point. Science fiction is after all, simply that.

I have been raised with a life philosophy that philosophy itself as my mentor is what will (and it has already) open my mind to the possible consequences and miracles of smarter intelligence. It has led me to ponder how orga and mecha can be at ease together behind never ending discrimination at social, moral, and academic stand points, and so on. What can define a human when AI like medical implants are ready to aid them? Can an android philosophize and why can humans do that anyhow if a thought can be considered a sort of computation in itself? Without a doubt, I will be limitless in my questioning with the philosophy in AI and this is what truly excites me and will continue to. I want to bridge these moral gaps between the mental capacities of machines and organic beings, just like some want to bridge gaps between math and art or how the plumber wants to bridge gaps with pipes. It's simply a complicated desire.

I intend to use my computer science background I receive to let the world know that inevitably humans and AI can and will be collaborating through that very essence of inspiring intellectual engagement all can crave and understand at some point in their lives.

---

# Essay 2

For Christmas 3 years ago, I asked for a microscope and a 13 organism dissecting set to toy with so I could quench my exponentially growing curiosity relating to biology. One day, I intend on applying my knowledge of biological research techniques in combination with advanced use of artificial intelligence in hopes of positively benefiting humanity.

By trying to attain this major goal, I have already tackled intellectual challenges. Before the age of 16, I have already taken 4 community college and university courses, scoring As/Bs in all of them. I have placed 1st for a science fair competition sponsored by Eastern Virginia Medical School through a study of cocaine and its effects on an international and scientific level.

Frankly, this thirst for knowledge has yet to be subsided.

Recently, I have discovered my specific passions in science lie in bioinformatics and immunology diseases and I feel I could learn so much more exposed to an environment given in this Roswell program. Not only would this program give me an opportunity to explore related fields in biology but I could also get a head start on individual/group collaborations inside laboratory settings and begin exposing presentations and papers on research topics I'm passionate about.

As hobbies, I enjoy working with video editing programs and volunteering with Operation Smile. I have worked with Adobe Premiere, Adobe After Effects, Photoshop, Final Cut Pro X, and iMovie and will also be attending a medical mission as a student educator through Operation Smile in Vietnam during early June. This mission met my standards for travel and learning combined in one as is essential to a great education.

As for periodicals I subscribe to/read regularly, I enjoy Virginian Pilot, Mac Life, NATIONAL WILDLIFE, and SIERRA.

I couldn't help myself last month and splurged on Dan Brown and Daniel Goleman, reading “Deception Point” by Dan Brown and “Emotional Intelligence” for the 3rd time by Daniel Goleman. These happen to be my 2 favorite authors for the time being , with Christopher Paolini placing third. As for January, I have unfortunately lacked in any extra reading aside from school related.

---

# Essay 3

One day, I hope to apply my knowledge of biological research techniques in combination with the advanced use of artificial intelligence in hope of positively benefiting humanity. By trying to attain this major goal, I have already tackled intellectual challenges. At the age of 10, I began my first high school courses with Algebra 1. At 13, I took my first college courses at Tidewater Community College, a local community college, during the summer of my freshman year. At 15, I took my first university course of General Zoology at Hampton University during the summer of sophomore year. During high school, I have taken a total of 2 AP course so far, and am currently taking 5 AP courses. For Christmas 3 years ago, I asked for a microscope and a 13 organism dissecting set to toy with so I could quench my exponentially growing curiosity relating to biology. This thirst for knowledge has yet to be subsided.

I am extremely potent when it comes to expressing myself through writing and video editing. I have worked with programs such as Adobe Premiere, Adobe After Effects, Photoshops, Final Cut Pro X, and iMovie. To say I enjoy working with movie making would be an understatement as I would definitely take any opportunity to further develop my skills in this area. I am also not too unfamiliar with scientific research. I placed first in 10th grade for a community science fair competition sponsored by the Eastern Virginia Medical School. I carried out a study of cocaine and its effects on an international and scientific level. I'm looking forward to working more with the research field of science since I enjoy executing presentations with Keynote and passing on my knowledge of a certain subject.

More recently, however, I have discovered my specific passions in science lie in bioinformatics and immunology diseases. However, a key component has been missing from my ambitious schedule- enough research experience. While I have participated in multiple research science projects in the past, I feel I could learn so much more exposed to an environment given in VBI's bioinformatics program. Not only would this program give me an opportunity to explore bioinformatics on a more specified level but I could also get a head start on brainstorming possible experimental ideas and begin exposing research papers on topics I am passionate about.

Furthermore, while this may not involve the STEM fields, I will be attending a medical mission as a student educator through Operation Smile in Vietnam during early June; Operation Smile is a non profit corporation that performs surgeries to children with cleft lips globally. This mission met my standards for travel, learning, and helping others combined all in one. Being outside typical classroom academics, I feel, is very essential to a overall great education.

---

# Essay 4

With my computer science major at NYUAD, my aspiration to aid in android development that will revolutionize the definition of “technological singularity” will become a bigger reality.Having already had taken the prerequisites freshman year, I can take the artificial intelligence class my sophomore year at NYUAD.Additionally,with NYUAD's Center for Science & Engineering, I will then utilize the experimental labs in robotics and nano particles for collaborative research.If I work hard enough, I'm sure I'll be able to get a conference paper written,reviewed,and accepted with fellow technophilic peers and present it at a competition like the “International Symposium on Robotics & Intelligent Sensors”.An intended concentration in “Interactive Media and Technology” will flourish my curriculum as I wish to introduce interactive display using Kinect technology as the new norm for presentations.Furthermore,my first J-term abroad, hopefully the "State & Fate of the Earth" course at one of the GNU sites, will give me fresh perspective on environmental issues.It won't end there though as I plan to visit the Al Wathba Wetlands Reserve and the various museums in Abu Dhabi frequently, participate in "The Amazing Race" in Dubai, write for Fishbowl Tribune, continue volunteering for Operation Smile, and relax now and then with go kart driving and scuba diving.Indeed,like a Saker falcon, I intend on ravaging my victim which is NYUAD, taking pleasure in its sweet taste of global opportunity.

Feeling like a gavel was pounding on my head as I watched a fifth consecutive surgery, my quivering body finalized my verdict.I was to faint and embarrass myself in front of the entire Vietnamese surgical team. Ergo, once I awoke again, the head surgeon reassured me he too had fainted as a medical student.It did not subside my current humility because I was no medical student. My only comfort was knowing 5 kids must have felt somewhat at ease with me by their side as they received their cleft lip surgery.Yet,sitting on the floor outside the OR, I could only chuckle at the irony of how all my past commitments with conferences and fundraising had led to this pathetic moment of giddiness.It let me realize how much Operation Smile meant to me. It's where I got my first leadership position, volunteered oodles of blissful hours, and made lifelong friends. It's where I can push myself until breaking point and that's what I intend to do again & again with future OP Smile work.It's where I thrive.

When I was socially awkward (whereas now chatterbox is my middle name) in elementary school, I turned to A.I. by communicating through the early model of Cleverbot known as Jabberwacky.Initial isolation evolved into a fascination for artificial intelligence and the radical idea of the technological singularity, which is where mecha (androids) discover autonomy and become mentally on par with orga (humans). My futurist calling came undeniably to a climax when I first watched “A.I. Artificial Intelligence” ten years ago.The film reveals how David, a child like android whose love is real though he is not, dreams of becoming a real boy and earning the love of his mother, who adopted him to fill the hollowness of losing her biological son.The moment David finally receives the love from his mother he yearned for throughout his dismal pursuit gave me hope that androids can one day achieve genuine emotional spirit. Sadly, my own goal of working with individuals like David started to crumble after words like “immoral” and “impossible” repeatedly arose when I researched controversy surrounding A.I. It all nearly daunted me but my fervor for other subjects like space exploration and interactive media could not overpower the passion I felt for A.I. potential.Being able to renovate outdated ways humans learn using A.I. is what captures my imagination more because at the core of improvement in every field is knowledge. This is what intrigues me, so that David can one day become my reality.

The world is shrinking. Shrinking meaning that while the population grows rapidly, more people are connecting to the rest of the world through growing uses of technology. At NYUAD, this phenomenon is understood, embraced, and improved upon with further shrinkage through the most diverse student body a university could ever hope to have. A student body I too can come to embrace and enhance with my fascination of different cultures and artificial intelligence. Coming from this truly global education as a computer science major, I will be prepared to enter this big yet small world of ours and begin to alter history's timeline as a pioneer in the technological revolution beckoning before us all.

---

# Essay 5

Much of my time has been spent with Operation Smile, a worldwide children's charity organization that helps treat facial deformities. There's a five sided argument to my reasons behind my commitment: who, what, where, when, and why? It's who I can have a heart-to-heart with on child suffering. It's what inspired me to push myself until breaking point continuously, reveling in the joy I was able to bring to those less fortunate. It's where I got my first leadership positions, made lifelong friends, attended a influential training workshop, and fainted in front of an entire Vietnamese surgical team after watching 4 and 1/2 surgeries. It's when I can happily interact with generous multitudes of people that define the organization and share in the outlooks diversity can bring. It's why I was able to attend that 2 week long medical mission in Vietnam and why I didn't feel so guilty after fainting because I was aiding kids overcome anxiety in the OR. Really, Operation Smile is how I thrive!

---

# Essay 6

High school hadn't prepared me for this moment. Already drenched in sweat from walking for miles in the hot savannah, I was ready to abandon the lingering environmental lecture and set foot instead into my personal serenity circle back in my banda at the camp, the circle being complete only with its glorious serendipity and gleeful sluggishness. This perfect halo of relaxation existed only in my thoughts, though, and again I was thrown back into the reality of class finally starting in the middle of the open savannah where I was surrounded of having to write “Dung Lecture” on the top margin of my notepad.

I wasn't so much thrown off by the whole idea of the lecture as I was to the fact that I was actually there in the Lake Manyara area of Tanzania learning about different types of animal dung and still completely casual about the whole situation. Professor Kioko started picking up random lumps of dung and began comparing the physical structure of the various animal dropping types, noting ungulates produced pellet like scat and canine or feline like animals such as hyenas and lions excreted large tubular like droppings instead. I was horrified at myself in the inside for being able to digest all this information and carefully the differences between the types of animal droppings typically found in the national parks of Tanzania and around Lake Manyara. A few of my fellow college peers started murmuring “Ew...gross”, almost in unison.

---

# Essay 8

Operation Smile (community service/volunteer work): Much of my time has been spent with Operation Smile, a worldwide children's charity organization that helps treat facial deformities. There's a five sided argument to my reasons behind my commitment: who, what, where, when, and why? It's who I can have a heart-to-heart with on child suffering. It's what inspired me to push myself until breaking point continuously, reveling in joy I was able to bring to those less fortunate. It's where I got my first leadership positions, made lifelong friends, attended a influential training workshop, and fainted in front of an entire Vietnamese surgical team after watching 4 and 1/2 surgeries. It's when I can happily interact with generous multitudes of people that define the organization and share in outlooks diversity can bring. It's why I was able to attend that 2 week long medical mission in Vietnam and why I didn't feel so guilty after fainting because I was aiding those kids overcome their understandable anxiety before they entered the OR. Really, Operation Smile is how I thrive!

The School For Field Studies (environmental studies abroad): The summer after my junior year, I decided to take a course through Boston University's School For Field Studies (#1 environmental studies abroad program for college students in the US). I decided to study “Wildlife Research Techniques” which meant I would be spending a month studying in Tanzania with college students from all over the US. I was lucky enough to be accepted to due to my past dual enrollment experience but high school, it turns out, had not yet prepared me for even the first lecture of this avant-garde experience. There I was in Lake Manyara of Tanzania learning about different types of animal dung and still completely casual about the whole situation. My Kenyan professor started picking up random lumps of dung and began comparing physical structures of various animal droppings, noting ungulates produced pellet like scat and canine/feline like animals such as hyenas and lions excreted large tubular like droppings instead. I was slightly horrified at how easily I was sighting these differences in poop. I realized then how much I appreciated the environment that I saw beauty even with dung. Yes, I know “caca” is not appealing, but beneath its brown colored decor, dung has power beyond our physical selves, and without it, our bowels would quickly go crazy and we would simply die off. I understand now that even the smallest of things can have a massive impact. Besides, if they couldn't, why is a mosquito still considered one of humanity's most treacherous creatures?

Model United Nations (academic club): As an amoeba new to MUN freshman year, I have evolved to become a full fledged heart pumping beast that enjoys the recreation and analyzation of global diplomatic studies. The world is a fascinating place and being able to get a taste of international relations and diplomacy through MUN really showed me how dialogue is so vital in any country's development and protection. As a Peruvian-American, I feel both part of the US and apart from some of its warped ideals which has made me sensitive to cultural differences Latin America and the US share. With MUN, I was finally able to come out of my shell by gaining confidence in expression, training my various delegate partners, and winning awards at local conferences. I may not want to major in anything history related but I uphold a deep appreciation for connections one can find globally through MUN and I will continue that upholding in college.

---

# Essay 9

I thank the many academic challenges I have faced. If I failed to have as many as I have had, I would end up being one of the many graduate students sobbing to their career counselors over their first B grade and why they have yet to conjure up a job so they can pay off their student debt. Pure nonsense! The real academic challenge I have faced then is the challenge of appreciating a system where I will have to pay so much money for something that should be granted to all without cost.

Students today, and I witness this first hand, have become so entirely focused on those numbers. The numbers that define their ranking, test scores, and grade point average are what matter more than the actual learning. Sure these numbers, if high enough, are to get them to that lovely institution of higher education, but at what price? Student debt is higher than ever and people with degrees still lack jobs. Every individual has different goals and different ways to attain those goals. Yet, society has forced this notion that a Bachelor's degree is simply essential to every work force that is worth having. I don't feel that's healthy mentally, economically, or academically for anyone. Different people need to work in different areas. The faster society realizes that and succeeds in not demeaning one' status for their chosen career path, the more everyone can benefit from a wide range of interests.

Why is it that education has become more expensive yet diminished in practical utility in terms of career development? Why is it that unless you go to an elite college, you are getting as much bang for your buck (the buck is much higher though) whereas if you go to a mediocre college you are getting much much less bang for your buck? Why is it some people who ought to go study something can't, just because of their financial background? There is no reason why this all has to happen, but society has become so rigid even when examples of successful “uneducated” people are all around us.

It seems that if you can't even achieve a BA, you're just a second tier citizen. Yet, if you do achieve a BA, you are most likely many thousands of dollars in debt.

My academic challenge applies to everyone because everyone has to deal with the tangible benefits they may or may not receive from college and how they will have to pay for them.

I have overcome this warped ideal, nevertheless, by convincing myself that I can and will find an institution where I can learn what I need to without completely depleting myself later financially. We all have an opportunity to truly immerse ourselves in learning without this huge price tag, and that's what I intend to do.
