By being awarded this scholarship, I’ll be given the rare victory of networking with and becoming stimulated by those of similar cultural origins to mine. Given that this scholarship was built from the ground up by an inspirational figure of African American origins who has already aided generations of underrepresented students such as myself to pursue STEM careers (which is my intention) only makes that victory all the sweeter.

I grasp in this moment more than ever that the so-called “perfect storm” has only become more prominent in communities like mine, where the minority will soon become the majority by 2040 (hint, hint) and will be given the responsibility, inevitably, to lead a multitude of tech companies nationally. This scholarship is essential in order for that difficulty to become decoded and ultimately resolved.

In the words of a TED speaker and the current Chairman of Dreamworks Animation, Mellody Hobson, if we mean to solve a very difficult problem, we’re going to need a manifold of intellects, ergo, a diverse group of people involved. Hobson calls for color bravery, and I believe this scholarship aspires to do just that. It provides students like me who don’t resemble or behave like the “average” Apple employee to opportunities that will challenge and extend my assumptions in computing so as to grow inclusively as a human being.

It isn’t just a question of cultural fit, however. The fact that I’m a big Apple fan is an understatement in and of itself. Before entering high school in September of 2009, I figured I would need a cooler laptop being older and all. And what could be possibly fancier than a 17-inch MacBook Pro with a 2.66 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo processor and 320 GB of storage? It definitely wasn’t my Acer desktop.

So began my long relationship of tinkling with Apple products, to the point now where I can take apart and reinstall hardware, understand and have taught others how to use most of the external and internal applications (iWork Suite, iMovie, Final Cut Pro X, Xcode), and have even attempted to work at Apple Retail (I've only gotten through the 2nd interview, but I'll keep trying). I once even joked to a Windows-friendly friend of mine that he couldn’t possibly come up with a new reason to love his computer every week the way I do. That’s the kind of power of Apple’s integrated ecosystem possesses. And ultimately the chance to explore that ecosystem in depth is the primary reason I’d like the chance to be an Apple HBCU scholar.
