docs/03-apply/README.md, before:

# Step 3 - Apply {docsify-ignore}

## Resume Generator

Use an online platform like [Creddle](http://creddle.io/) to avoid the tedious process of making a resume from scratch.

![Creddle](https://i.imgur.com/8f18oDM.png)

## Warm Intros

Use your connections to find someone you may know at the company (1st to 3rd connections on LinkedIn) to get a warm intro whenever possible.

In my experience, warm intros are by far the most effective way to get you an initial interview.

If you put yourself in the recruiter's shoes, you'll quickly realize that it would be way nicer to have referrals sent to you instead of looking over hundreds (or thousands) of resumes.

An easy way of figuring out if you know someone at the company is via LinkedIn and using their filtering options.

As an example, here I'm trying to find a **1st connection** on LinkedIn that **lives in the US** and works for **Google**.

Now I have a better idea of the folks I can reach out to if I ever want to try and get a job at Google.

![LinkedIn Filtering](https://i.imgur.com/dRLlTGY.png)

Commit message:

Add content about resume editing

docs/03-apply/README.md, after:

# Step 3 - Apply {docsify-ignore}

## Resume Generator

Use an online platform like [Creddle](http://creddle.io/) to avoid the tedious process of making a resume from scratch.

![Creddle](https://i.imgur.com/8f18oDM.png)

Consider your resume a living document that has continuous updates, tweaks, and versions. If your job search has been a lengthy one with many rejections, take time to evaluate your resume and see if it is best capturing you as a worthy candidate. Begin A/B testing resumes with different companies, to see if there's one version with a better response. This testing can work great when applying on [job boards](02-search/README.md).

Always take time to edit and proofread your resume. When you've polished it to an approving status, have another person read it for feedback. Additionally, if you're working with a recruiter directly, they would be an excellent person to ask for feedback on how your resume stands. 

Lastly, print out your resume to see if the formatting is appropriate on both physically and digitally. There have been times I worked on an awesome resume, only to find my font prints out very small. 

## Warm Intros

Use your connections to find someone you may know at the company (1st to 3rd connections on LinkedIn) to get a warm intro whenever possible.

In my experience, warm intros are by far the most effective way to get you an initial interview.

If you put yourself in the recruiter's shoes, you'll quickly realize that it would be way nicer to have referrals sent to you instead of looking over hundreds (or thousands) of resumes.

An easy way of figuring out if you know someone at the company is via LinkedIn and using their filtering options.

As an example, here I'm trying to find a **1st connection** on LinkedIn that **lives in the US** and works for **Google**.

Now I have a better idea of the folks I can reach out to if I ever want to try and get a job at Google.

![LinkedIn Filtering](https://i.imgur.com/dRLlTGY.png)
