docs/04-interview/asking.md, before:

# Asking Questions

## Position

- How would you describe the responsibilities of the position?
- How would you describe a typical day and week in this position?
- Is this a new position?
    + If not, what did the previous employee go on to do?
- Who does this position report to?
- How much travel is expected?
- What is the typical work week in terms of hours?
    + Do a lot of folks work overtime?
- What's the most important thing I should accomplish in the first ninety days?
- Are there metrics or goals set up for me the first week that I would be striving towards?

## Team

- Can you talk a bit about communication within the team? Across teams?
- How many people work in this office/department?
- Let's say I'm doing really terribly or really great the first week.
    + How am I going to be getting feedback as to whether I'm performing great or terribly?
- How does the team keep up to date with the latest and greatest technologies?
- What are some of the internal tools used in the company and what role do they play?
- What is used for version control?
- What's the overall tech stack I'd be working with?
- How does the code review process work?
- Are there weekly sprints or standup meetings?
- How often are meetings and how long?

## Culture

- If you had an idea for something you thought would be great to work on, what would it take to make it happen?
    + What is the process from having an idea to getting it out the door?
- What is the company's management style?
    + How do you prevent micro-management amongst managers and developers or designers?
- Does diversity play a part in company culture?

## Company

- What is the biggest challenge facing [the company] right now?
- Who are your target consumers?
- How many people work in this office/department?
- How would you describe this company's values?
- How has the company changed over the last few years?
- What are the company's plans for growth and development?

## Interviewer Experience

- How long have you been with the company?
- What is it like working there?
- How did you get your job?
- What is one thing you love about working at [company] and one thing that really frustrates you?
- What are the biggest rewards of the job and working for this company?
- What’s the last thing you shipped?
    + What’s the last thing you launched that real people are now using?
- If you had an idea for something you thought would be great to work on, what would it take to make it happen? What is the process from having an idea to getting it out the door?
- What is the biggest challenge facing [the company] right now? What worries you about this issue? And how is [the company] working on solving it?
- What has your past experience been like working with [position applying for]?

## Wrap Up

- So now that I've exhausted my questions here, could you give me an overview of what the next steps in the process are or a time line for getting back to me?

Commit message:

More questions asked for interviewers
Signed-off-by: FVCproductions <hello@fvcproductions.com>

docs/04-interview/asking.md, after:

# Asking Questions

## Position

- How do you know what to work on each day?
- How would you describe the responsibilities of the position?
- How would you describe a typical day and week in this position?
- Is this a new position?
    + If not, what did the previous employee go on to do?
- Who does this position report to?
- How much travel is expected?
- What is the typical work week in terms of hours?
    + Do a lot of folks work overtime?
- What's the most important thing I should accomplish in the first ninety days?
- Are there metrics or goals set up for me the first week that I would be striving towards?

## Team

- Can you talk a bit about communication within the team? Across teams?
- How many people work in this office/department?
- Let's say I'm doing really terribly or really great the first week.
    + How am I going to be getting feedback as to whether I'm performing great or terribly?
- Are there weekly sprints or stand up meetings?
- How often are meetings and how long?

## Technical

- What are some of the internal tools used in the company and what role do they play?
- What is used for version control?
- What's the overall tech stack I'd be working with?
- How does the code review process work?
- How does the team keep up to date with the latest and greatest technologies?

## Culture

- If you had an idea for something you thought would be great to work on, what would it take to make it happen?
    + What is the process from having an idea to getting it out the door?
- What is the company's management style?
    + How do you prevent micro-management amongst managers and developers or designers?
- Does diversity play a part in company culture?

## Company

- What is the biggest challenge facing [the company] right now?
- Who are your target consumers?
- How many people work in this office/department?
- How would you describe this company's values?
- How has the company changed over the last few years?
- What are the company's plans for growth and development?

## Interviewer Experience

- How long have you been with the company?
- What is it like working there?
- How did you get your job?
- What is one thing you love about working at [company] and one thing that really frustrates you?
- What are the biggest rewards of the job and working for this company?
- What’s the last thing you shipped?
    + What’s the last thing you launched that real people are now using?
- If you had an idea for something you thought would be great to work on, what would it take to make it happen? What is the process from having an idea to getting it out the door?
- What is the biggest challenge facing [the company] right now? What worries you about this issue? And how is [the company] working on solving it?
- What has your past experience been like working with [position applying for]?

## Wrap Up

- So now that I've exhausted my questions here, could you give me an overview of what the next steps in the process are or a time line for getting back to me?

> Resources

- [A developer’s guide to interviewing](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/how-to-interview-as-a-developer-candidate-b666734f12dd) (still need to add on these questions)
